Deployment.md, before:

#Zebrafish Facility Manager

Each deployment includes:
1. Acquiring and setting up a domain name.
1. Setting up the server computer environment including all the software required
by the zebrafish facility manager.
1. Deploying the zf-server
1. Deploying the zf-client


## Domain name

You will need a domain name for the deployment as a whole. 
For the purpose of illustration, this guide will assume you have 
purchased _examplezfm.com_ and that you set up DNS records to point
at your host's IP address.

It is a good idea to set up _test.examplezfm.com_ as a an initial sub-domain.
Later when you are configuring a system for a particular facility, you will be
adding one sub-domain per facility.  If you happen to know that you are going set up
managers for facilities _eue_ and _acdc_, you could create those sub-domains too.
But you can always do that later.
The DNS entries should all point to the ip address of your host.

You can get a domain name and set up your DNS at any number of providers like
[Namecheap.com](https://namecheap.com).

## Deployment Part 1:  Setting up the server computer environment
### Host setup
Experienced administrators can zip through this guide quickly, but it is
a mini site-admin guide for the benefit of less experienced people.  
And in truth, it's just a memory aide for me.

**For this guide, we will deploy on a Debian 10(+) computer**.

The system can be deployed in other environments in which case, you will need to
understand how to perform equivalent operations in that environment.

On Debian, make sure everything is up to date:
```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
```
### Node and NPM

We need to use node and the node package manager.
```bash
sudo apt install nodejs npm
```
I noticed that the default node and npm on a fresh Debian 10 machine were a bit behind the times
and I had to upgrade them.

### MariaDB

Please refer to MariaDB resources to determine how to install MariaDB in your server
environment.

Here is a friendly article for [how to install MariaDB securely on 
Debian](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-mariadb-on-debian-10).
Later, when you go to create individual databases for each zebrafish facility, the guide will assume
you have followed the good, secure procedure described there.

### Web Server

The system uses a web server to:
1. serve the zf-client to the end user
1. serve zebrafish facility-specific configuration to the zf-client
1. handle HTTPS traffic between each zf-client and the correct facility-specific zf-server

Apache2 as it is usually pre-installed on Linux servers, but just in case, here is friendly 
article on [how to install Apache on
Debian](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-the-apache-web-server-on-debian-10)

Set up a virtual host for your domain (in this case examplezfm.com).  You can put anything you want in
in the root directory, it is a base website you can use to welcome folks.  You might want
to include links to whatever whatever facility managers you have running.

You will need to set up a separate virtual host for each zebrafish facility the system manages.
It is a good idea to set up an example one now.
The process of setting up a virtual host for a facility is covered [here](Apache.md).

### Set up SSL on your Web Server

Before you start this section, you should have set up DNS for your domain
(and any sub-domains you can think of in advance). Unfortunately you also need to also have at least one
virtual host set up for this to work.
So you probably want to go ahead with the rest of your deployment and then creat a deployment
for one or two facilities and **then** come back and set up SSL.

The good news is that this is mercifully fast to do.

Before using the procedure that follows, please note that when 
you get to the part where the procedure says to use 
certbot to create your certificate, you can use multiple -d options,
one for your domain and one for each sub-domain.  Using the example above, your command might look like

```bash 
sudo certbot --apache -d example_zfm.com -d test.example-zfc.com -d eue.example-zfc.com -d acdc.example-zfc.com
```
                                                       
Here it a procedure on
[how to secure Apache](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-secure-apache-with-let-s-encrypt-on-debian-10).

Later when you want to add another facility, you will create a sub-domain and add it to your certificate.
This is covered in the "Per Facility" guide.

## zf-server and zf-client deployment

### Clone the Github repository

This is where you download all zf-client and zf-server code.
Go to a directory on the server where you plan to download the code. Then:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/tmoens/zebrafish-facility-manager
```

### zf-server set up

```bash
# navigate to the zf-server sub-directory
cd path/to/zebrafish-facility-manager/zf-server

# Download npm packages
npm install

# Build the zf-server
npm run build
```

### zf-client set up

```bash 
# navigate to the the zf-client sub-directory
cd path/to/zebrafish-facility-manager/zf-server

# Download npm packages
npm install

# you need to install angular-cli
sudo npm install @angular/cli

# Build the zf-client
ng build --configuration=production
```

The result of this operation will be a directory called /dist/zf-client.
You need to deploy the directory to your Web Server.  Assuming that the
root of your web server is _/var/www/_, just deploy zf-client directory there.

## Wrap up

You are finally ready to configure the system to manage a zebrafish facility.
Here is the [Facility Configuration Guide](PerFacility.md). 

## License

  Zebrafish Facility Manager is [MIT licensed](LICENSE).
  
## Thank you

- [Nest](https://github.com/nestjs/nest) provides the zf-server application framework.
- [typeorm](https://typeorm.delightful.studio/) provides the orm
- [MariaDB](https://mariadb.com/) is used by default

Commit message:

Extensive update notes on deployment.

Deployment.md, after:

#Zebrafish Facility Manager

Each deployment includes:
1. Acquiring and setting up a domain name.
1. Setting up the server computer environment including all the software required
by the zebrafish facility manager.
1. Deploying the zf-server
1. Deploying the zf-client


## Domain name

You will need a domain name for the deployment as a whole. 
For the purpose of illustration, this guide will assume you have 
purchased _examplezfm.com_ and that you set up DNS records to point
at your host's IP address.

It is a good idea to set up _test.examplezfm.com_ as a an initial sub-domain.
Later when you are configuring a system for a particular facility, you will be
adding one sub-domain per facility.  If you happen to know that you are going set up
managers for facilities _eue_ and _acdc_, you could create those sub-domains too.
But you can always do that later.
The DNS entries should all point to the ip address of your host.

You can get a domain name and set up your DNS at any number of providers like
[Namecheap.com](https://namecheap.com).

## Deployment Part 1:  Setting up the server computer environment
### Host setup
Experienced administrators can zip through this guide quickly, but it is
a mini site-admin guide for the benefit of less experienced people.  
And in truth, it's just a memory aide for me.

**For this guide, we will deploy on a Debian 10(+) computer**.

The system can be deployed in other environments in which case, you will need to
understand how to perform equivalent operations in that environment.

On Debian, make sure everything is up to date:
```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
```
### Node and NPM

We need to use node and the node package manager.
```bash
sudo apt install nodejs npm
```
I noticed that the default node and npm on a fresh Debian 10 machine were a bit behind the times
and I had to upgrade them.

### MariaDB

Please refer to MariaDB resources to determine how to install MariaDB in your server
environment.

Here is a friendly article for [how to install MariaDB securely on 
Debian](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-mariadb-on-debian-10).
Later, when you go to create individual databases for each zebrafish facility, the guide will assume
you have followed the good, secure procedure described there.  You will have created an administrative
user called admin, which you will use to create  databases for each facility.
You must remember the password for that administrative user.

### Web Server

The system uses a web server to:
1. serve the zf-client to the end user
1. serve zebrafish facility-specific configuration to the zf-client
1. handle HTTPS traffic between each zf-client and the correct facility-specific zf-server

Apache2 as it is usually pre-installed on Linux servers, but just in case, here is friendly 
article on [how to install Apache on
Debian](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-the-apache-web-server-on-debian-10)

Set up a virtual host for your domain (in this case examplezfm.com).  You can put anything you want in
in the root directory, it is a base website you can use to welcome folks.  You might want
to include links to whatever whatever facility managers you have running.

You will need to set up a separate virtual host for each zebrafish facility the system manages.
It is a good idea to set up an example one now.
The process of setting up a virtual host for a facility is covered [here](Apache.md).

## zf-server and zf-client deployment

### Clone the Github repository

This is where you download all zf-client and zf-server code.
Go to a directory on the server where you plan to download the code. Then:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/tmoens/zebrafish-facility-manager
```

### zf-server set up

```bash
# navigate to the zf-server sub-directory
cd path/to/zebrafish-facility-manager/zf-server

# Download npm packages
npm install

# Build the zf-server
npm run build
```

### zf-client set up

```bash 
# navigate to the the zf-client sub-directory
cd path/to/zebrafish-facility-manager/zf-server

# Download npm packages
npm install

# you need to install angular-cli
sudo npm install @angular/cli

# Build the zf-client
ng build --configuration=production
```

The result of this operation will be a directory called /dist/zf-client.
You need to deploy the directory to your Web Server.  Assuming that the
root of your web server is _/var/www/_, just deploy zf-client directory there.

## GMAIL Sender

The application needs to send emails. Example:
when a user is created, they get an email with password reset instructions.

We did not invest a huge amount of time here, we simply send them via gmail which
means that you will need to provide a gmail address the server can use for sending
emails.

What is more, since the application sends the emails programattically, the gmail account
it logs into is deemed insecure by Google, no matter how good the password is.

You need to create such a Google/gmail account - do not use your own.
You need to give it a very good password (again, use a password generator).
You need to configure the account to allow "insecure access".

In the "per faccility" guide you will be entering the id and password for this account.

## Wrap up

You are finally ready to configure the system to manage a zebrafish facility.
Here is the [Facility Configuration Guide](PerFacility.md). 

## License

  Zebrafish Facility Manager is [MIT licensed](LICENSE).
  
## Thank you

- [Nest](https://github.com/nestjs/nest) provides the zf-server application framework.
- [typeorm](https://typeorm.delightful.studio/) provides the orm
- [MariaDB](https://mariadb.com/) is used by default
